specification/columns/commitmentdiscountcategory.md, before:

# Commitment Discount Category

Commitment Discount Category indicates whether the [*commitment-based discount*](#glossary:commitment-based-discount) identified in the CommitmentDiscountId column is based on usage quantity or cost (aka "spend").

The CommitmentDiscountCategory column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be of type String, MUST be null when [CommitmentDiscountId](#commitmentdiscountid) is null, and MUST NOT be null when CommitmentDiscountId is not null. The CommitmentDiscountCategory MUST be one of the allowed values.

## Column ID

CommitmentDiscountCategory

## Display name

Commitment Discount Category

## Description

Indicates whether the *commitment-based discount* identified in the CommitmentDiscountId column is based on usage quantity or cost (aka "spend").

## Content constraints

|    Constraint   |      Value       |
|:----------------|:-----------------|
| Column type     | Dimension        |
| Column required | True             |
| Allows nulls    | True             |
| Data type       | String           |
| Value format    | Allowed Values   |

Allowed values:

| Value   | Description                                                              |
|:--------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Spend   | Commitment-based discounts that require a predetermined amount of spend. |
| Usage   | Commitment-based discounts that require a predetermined amount of usage. |

## Introduced (version)

1.0

Commit message:

Column updates for FOCUS Essential and corresponding normative changes

specification/columns/commitmentdiscountcategory.md, after:

# Commitment Discount Category

Commitment Discount Category indicates whether the [*commitment-based discount*](#glossary:commitment-based-discount) identified in the CommitmentDiscountId column is based on usage quantity or cost (aka "spend").

The CommitmentDiscountCategory column MUST be present in the billing data when the provider supports *commitment-based discounts*. This column MUST be of type String, MUST be null when [CommitmentDiscountId](#commitmentdiscountid) is null, and MUST NOT be null when CommitmentDiscountId is not null. The CommitmentDiscountCategory MUST be one of the allowed values.

## Column ID

CommitmentDiscountCategory

## Display name

Commitment Discount Category

## Description

Indicates whether the *commitment-based discount* identified in the CommitmentDiscountId column is based on usage quantity or cost (aka "spend").

## Content constraints

|    Constraint   |      Value       |
|:----------------|:-----------------|
| Column type     | Dimension        |
| FOCUS Essential | False            |
| Allows nulls    | True             |
| Data type       | String           |
| Value format    | Allowed Values   |

Allowed values:

| Value   | Description                                                              |
|:--------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Spend   | Commitment-based discounts that require a predetermined amount of spend. |
| Usage   | Commitment-based discounts that require a predetermined amount of usage. |

## Introduced (version)

1.0
