specification/columns/region.md, before:

# Region

A Region is a provider assigned identifier for an isolated geographic area where a [*resource*](#glossary:resource) is provisioned in or a [*service*](#glossary:service) is provided from. Region is commonly used for scenarios like analyzing cost and unit prices based on where *resources* are deployed.

Region MUST be present in the billing data and MUST be of type String. Region MUST NOT be null when a *resource* or *service* is operated in or managed from a distinct region. Region values MUST be consistent within the provider and MUST be the same values used to indicate the region when provisioning or purchasing the *resource* or *service*.

## Column ID

Region

## Display name

Region

## Description

Isolated geographic area where a *resource* is provisioned in or a *service* is provided from.

## Content constraints

| Constraint      | Value           |
|-----------------|-----------------|
| Column type     | Dimension       |
| Column required | True            |
| Allows nulls    | True            |
| Data type       | String          |
| Value format    | \<not specified> |

## Introduced (version)

0.5

Commit message:

Column updates for FOCUS Essential and corresponding normative changes

specification/columns/region.md, after:

# Region

A Region is a provider-assigned identifier for an isolated geographic area where a [*resource*](#glossary:resource) is provisioned or [*service*](#glossary:service) is provided. The Region is commonly used for scenarios like analyzing cost and unit prices based on where *resources* are deployed.

The Region column MUST be present in the billing data when the provider supports deploying resources or services within an advertised geographical region. and MUST be of type String. Region MUST NOT be null when a *resource* or *service* is operated in or managed from a distinct region. Region values MUST be consistent within the provider and MUST be the same values used to indicate the region when provisioning or purchasing the *resource* or *service*.

## Column ID

Region

## Display name

Region

## Description

Isolated geographic area where a *resource* is provisioned in or a *service* is provided from.

## Content constraints

| Constraint      | Value           |
|-----------------|-----------------|
| Column type     | Dimension       |
| FOCUS Essential | False           |
| Allows nulls    | True            |
| Data type       | String          |
| Value format    | \<not specified> |

## Introduced (version)

0.5
