specification/columns/resourcetype.md, before:

# Resource Type

Resource Type describes the kind of [*resource*](#glossary:resource) the charge applies to.  A Resource Type is commonly used for scenarios like identifying cost changes in groups of similar *resources* and may include values like Virtual Machine, Data Warehouse, and Load Balancer.

The ResourceType column MUST be present within billing data.  This column MUST be of type String and MUST NOT be null when a corresponding [ResourceId](#resourceid) is not null.  When a corresponding ResourceId value is null, the ResourceType column value MUST also be null.  Providers MUST use a consistent value-format and a set of values for ResourceType values within their billing datasets.

## Column ID

ResourceType

## Display Name

Resource Type

## Description

The kind of *resource* the charge applies to.

## Content Constraints

|    Constraint   |      Value      |
|:----------------|:----------------|
| Column type     | Dimension       |
| Column required | True            |
| Allows nulls    | True            |
| Data type       | String          |
| Value format    | \<not specified> |

## Introduced (version)

1.0

Commit message:

Column updates for FOCUS Essential and corresponding normative changes

specification/columns/resourcetype.md, after:

# Resource Type

Resource Type describes the kind of [*resource*](#glossary:resource) the charge applies to. A Resource Type is commonly used for scenarios like identifying cost changes in groups of similar *resources* and may include values like Virtual Machine, Data Warehouse, and Load Balancer.

The ResourceId column MUST be present in the billing data when the provider supports billing based on provisioned resources and supports categorization of resources. This column MUST be of type String and MUST NOT be null when a corresponding [ResourceId](#resourceid) is not null. When a corresponding ResourceId value is null, the ResourceType column value MUST also be null. Providers MUST use a consistent value format and a set of values for ResourceType values within their billing datasets.

## Column ID

ResourceType

## Display Name

Resource Type

## Description

The kind of *resource* the charge applies to.

## Content Constraints

|    Constraint   |      Value      |
|:----------------|:----------------|
| Column type     | Dimension       |
| FOCUS Essential | False           |
| Allows nulls    | True            |
| Data type       | String          |
| Value format    | \<not specified> |

## Introduced (version)

1.0
