specification/columns/resourcename.md, before:

# Resource Name

The Resource Name is a display name assigned to a [*resource*](#glossary:resource). It is commonly used for cost analysis, reporting, and
allocation scenarios.

The ResourceName column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be of type String. The ResourceName value
MAY be a nullable column as some cost data [*rows*](#glossary:row) may not be associated with a *resource* or because a display name cannot
be assigned to a *resource*. ResourceName MUST NOT be null if a display name can be assigned to a *resource*. *Resources* not
provisioned interactively or only have a system generated [ResourceId](#resourceid) MUST NOT duplicate the same value as the ResourceName.

## Column ID

ResourceName

## Display Name

Resource Name

## Description

Display name assigned to a *resource*.

## Content Constraints

|    Constraint   |      Value      |
|:----------------|:----------------|
| Column type     | Dimension       |
| Column required | True            |
| Allows nulls    | True            |
| Data type       | String          |
| Value format    | \<not specified> |

## Introduced (version)

0.5

Commit message:

Column updates for FOCUS Essential and corresponding normative changes

specification/columns/resourcename.md, after:

# Resource Name

The Resource Name is a display name assigned to a [*resource*](#glossary:resource). It is commonly used for cost analysis, reporting, and allocation scenarios.

The ResourceId column MUST be present in the billing data when the provider supports billing based on provisioned resources. This column MUST be of type String. The ResourceName value MAY be a nullable column as some cost data [*rows*](#glossary:row) may not be associated with a *resource* or because a display name cannot be assigned to a *resource*. ResourceName MUST NOT be null if a display name can be assigned to a *resource*. *Resources* not provisioned interactively or only have a system-generated [ResourceId](#resourceid) MUST NOT duplicate the same value as the ResourceName.

## Column ID

ResourceName

## Display Name

Resource Name

## Description

Display name assigned to a *resource*.

## Content Constraints

|    Constraint   |      Value      |
|:----------------|:----------------|
| Column type     | Dimension       |
| FOCUS Essential | False           |
| Allows nulls    | True            |
| Data type       | String          |
| Value format    | \<not specified> |

## Introduced (version)

0.5
