specification/columns/resourceid.md, before:

# Resource ID

A Resource ID is an identifier assigned to a [*resource*](#glossary:resource) by the provider. The Resource ID is commonly used for cost
reporting, analysis, and allocation scenarios.

The ResourceId column MUST be present in the billing data. This column MUST be of type String. The ResourceId value
MAY be a nullable column as some cost data [*rows*](#glossary:row) may not be associated with a *resource*. ResourceId MUST appear in the
cost data if an identifier is assigned to a *resource* by the provider. ResourceId SHOULD be a fully-qualified
identifier that ensures global uniqueness within the provider.

## Column ID

ResourceId

## Display Name

Resource ID

## Description

Identifier assigned to a *resource* by the provider.

## Content Constraints

| Constraint      | Value           |
|:----------------|:----------------|
| Column type     | Dimension       |
| Column required | True            |
| Allows nulls    | True            |
| Data type       | String          |
| Value format    | \<not specified> |

## Introduced (version)

0.5

Commit message:

Column updates for FOCUS Essential and corresponding normative changes

specification/columns/resourceid.md, after:

# Resource ID

A Resource ID is an identifier assigned to a [*resource*](#glossary:resource) by the provider. The Resource ID is commonly used for cost reporting, analysis, and allocation scenarios.

The ResourceId column MUST be present in the billing data when the provider supports billing based on provisioned resources. This column MUST be of type String. The ResourceId value MAY be a nullable column as some cost data [*rows*](#glossary:row) may not be associated with a *resource*. ResourceId MUST appear in the cost data if an identifier is assigned to a *resource* by the provider. ResourceId SHOULD be a fully-qualified identifier that ensures global uniqueness within the provider.

## Column ID

ResourceId

## Display Name

Resource ID

## Description

Identifier assigned to a *resource* by the provider.

## Content Constraints

| Constraint      | Value           |
|:----------------|:----------------|
| Column type     | Dimension       |
| FOCUS Essential | False           |
| Allows nulls    | True            |
| Data type       | String          |
| Value format    | \<not specified> |

## Introduced (version)

0.5
