specification/columns/tags.md, before:

# Tags

The Tags column represents the set of tags assigned to [*tag sources*](#glossary:tag-source) that also account for potential provider-defined or user-defined tag evaluations.  Tags are commonly used for scenarios like adding business context to billing data to identify and accurately allocate charges.

A tag becomes [*finalized*](#glossary:finalized-tag) when a single value is selected from a set of possible tag values assigned to the tag key.  When supported by a provider, this can occur when a tag value is set by provider-defined or user-defined rules.

The Tags column adheres to the following requirements:

* The Tags column MUST contain user-defined and provider-defined tags.
* The Tags column MUST only contain finalized tags.
* The Tags column MUST be in [Key-Value Format](#key-valueformat).
* A Tag key without a specified value MUST have its tag value set to null.
* If Tag finalization is supported, providers MUST publish tag finalization methods and semantics within their respective documentation.
* Providers MUST NOT alter user-defined Tag keys or values.

Provider-defined Tags additionally adhere to the following requirements:

* Provider-defined tags MUST be prefixed with a provider-specified tag key prefix.
* Providers SHOULD publish all provider-specified tag key prefixes within their respective documentation.

## Provider-Defined vs. User-Defined Tags

The following is an example of one user-defined tag and one provider-defined tag, respectively, with tag key, `foo`.  The first tag is user-defined and not prefixed. The second tag is provider-defined and prefixed with `acme/`, which the provider has specified as a reserved tag key prefix.

```json
    {
        "foo":"bar",
        "acme/foo": "bar"
    }
```

## Finalized Tags

Within a provider, tag keys may be associated with multiple values, and potentially defined at different levels within the provider, such as accounts, folders, [*resource*](#glossary:resource) and other *resource* grouping constructs. When finalizing, *providers* must reduce these multiple levels of definition to a single value where each key is associated with exactly one value. The method by which this is done and the semantics are up to each provider, but must be documented within their respective documentation.

As a example, let's assume 1 [*sub account*](#glossary:sub-account) exists with 1 virtual machine with the following details, and tag inheritance favors Resources over *Sub Accounts*.

* Sub Account
  * id: *my-sub-account*
  * user-defined tags: *team:ops*, *env:prod*
* Virtual Machine
  * id: *my-vm*
  * user-defined tags: *team:web*

The table below represents a finalized billing dataset with these *resources*.  It also shows the finalized state after all resource-oriented, tag inheritance rules are processed.

| ResourceType    | ResourceId     | Tags                                        |
| :---------------| :--------------| :-------------------------------------------|
| Sub Account     | my-sub-account | { "team": "ops", "env": "prod" }            |
| Virtual Machine | my-vm          | { "team": "web", *"env": "prod"* }          |

Because the the Virtual Machine Resource did not have an `env` tag, it inherited tag, `env:prod` (italicized), from its parent *sub account*.  Conversely, because the Virtual Machine Resource already has a `team` tag (`team:web`), it did not inherit `team:ops` from its parent *sub account*.

## Column ID

Tags

## Display Name

Tags

## Description

The set of tags assigned to *tag sources* that also account for potential provider-defined or user-defined tag evaluations.

## Content Constraints

|    Constraint   |      Value       |
|:----------------|:-----------------|
| Column type     | Dimension        |
| Column required | True             |
| Allows nulls    | True             |
| Data type       | JSON             |
| Value format    | [Key-Value Format](#key-valueformat) |

## Introduced (version)

1.0

Commit message:

Column updates for FOCUS Essential and corresponding normative changes

specification/columns/tags.md, after:

# Tags

The Tags column represents the set of tags assigned to [*tag sources*](#glossary:tag-source) that also account for potential provider-defined or user-defined tag evaluations.  Tags are commonly used for scenarios like adding business context to billing data to identify and accurately allocate charges.

A tag becomes [*finalized*](#glossary:finalized-tag) when a single value is selected from a set of possible tag values assigned to the tag key.  When supported by a provider, this can occur when a tag value is set by provider-defined or user-defined rules.

The Tags column adheres to the following requirements:

* The Tags column MUST be present in the billing data when the provider supports setting user or provider-defined tags.
* The Tags column MUST contain user-defined and provider-defined tags.
* The Tags column MUST only contain finalized tags.
* The Tags column MUST be in [Key-Value Format](#key-valueformat).
* A Tag key without a specified value MUST have its tag value set to null.
* If Tag finalization is supported, providers MUST publish tag finalization methods and semantics within their respective documentation.
* Providers MUST NOT alter user-defined Tag keys or values.

Provider-defined Tags additionally adhere to the following requirements:

* Provider-defined tags MUST be prefixed with a provider-specified tag key prefix.
* Providers SHOULD publish all provider-specified tag key prefixes within their respective documentation.

## Provider-Defined vs. User-Defined Tags

The following is an example of one user-defined tag and one provider-defined tag, respectively, with tag key, `foo`.  The first tag is user-defined and not prefixed. The second tag is provider-defined and prefixed with `acme/`, which the provider has specified as a reserved tag key prefix.

```json
    {
        "foo":"bar",
        "acme/foo": "bar"
    }
```

## Finalized Tags

Within a provider, tag keys may be associated with multiple values, and potentially defined at different levels within the provider, such as accounts, folders, [*resource*](#glossary:resource) and other *resource* grouping constructs. When finalizing, *providers* must reduce these multiple levels of definition to a single value where each key is associated with exactly one value. The method by which this is done and the semantics are up to each provider but must be documented within their respective documentation.

As an example, let's assume 1 [*sub account*](#glossary:sub-account) exists with 1 virtual machine with the following details, and tag inheritance favors Resources over *Sub Accounts*.

* Sub Account
  * id: *my-sub-account*
  * user-defined tags: *team:ops*, *env:prod*
* Virtual Machine
  * id: *my-vm*
  * user-defined tags: *team:web*

The table below represents a finalized billing dataset with these *resources*.  It also shows the finalized state after all resource-oriented, tag inheritance rules are processed.

| ResourceType    | ResourceId     | Tags                                        |
| :---------------| :--------------| :-------------------------------------------|
| Sub Account     | my-sub-account | { "team": "ops", "env": "prod" }            |
| Virtual Machine | my-vm          | { "team": "web", *"env": "prod"* }          |

Because the the Virtual Machine Resource did not have an `env` tag, it inherited tag, `env:prod` (italicized), from its parent *sub account*.  Conversely, because the Virtual Machine Resource already has a `team` tag (`team:web`), it did not inherit `team:ops` from its parent *sub account*.

## Column ID

Tags

## Display Name

Tags

## Description

The set of tags assigned to *tag sources* that account for potential provider-defined or user-defined tag evaluations.

## Content Constraints

|    Constraint   |      Value       |
|:----------------|:-----------------|
| Column type     | Dimension        |
| FOCUS Essential | False            |
| Allows nulls    | True             |
| Data type       | JSON             |
| Value format    | [Key-Value Format](#key-valueformat) |

## Introduced (version)

1.0
